What is Git?
What is Github?
Difference between git and github?

Working Directory, stage, local repository,and commit

What is repository?

Install git
Download the git in the git offical website

Git bash is similar to linux terminal


Commands:
git --version (version chech)

repo create in local:

git init (Git is tracking in your folder)


Clone the remote repo into the local

repo create in server
go to github website and click new repository and create repo

git clone "https:link"



1.Working Directory

git status (show the changes file list in the command) Tracking the status

2. Staging
git status (look what files actually changed)

git add ("--all" or "-A" is select all files)

git add . (is working in the current directory)

if remove everything in staging area: git reset (unstaging)

git add * (Only changes new or modified files not deleted files)

git add (file with format means individual files)

git add *.format (file will add stage for with the current format files)


3. Local repository (commit)

git status (look for current stage)

git commit -m "Message" 

if need
"""
After commit show the config looks email and name

git config --global user.email ""
git config --global user.name ""

"""

git status

if need:
git reset HEAD~ (undo the last commit)


file delete the local without delete button
"""
After commit you delete the file or folder in the local repo so we don't add and commit again the git use this command

git rm ("what folder or file you want delete mentioned that file and format or folder name")

"""


after back the file and edit again and remove from the local and how to commit files remove that particular folder

git rm "file.format" showing error so use force

git rm -f "file.format" this will remove from the commit files and go to deletion segment


AFter commit so that will unstage
git rm --cached "file.format" this is remove in staging area


Folder delete the local without delete button
git rm -r <folder> if the folder contains sub folder so remove one by one

git rm <folder> if the particular folder only delete

How to view the commit:
git log (instantly see the full commit history)

git log --oneline (full commit history comes one line)

Branching:

What is branching?..

Map to branch to merge in main to sub branch

what is Merged?..

git branch (list of branches)

git branch <branch name> (create a new branch)

git checkout <branch name> (switch to created branch)



git merge main -m "comments" ( this will merge the main branch into to the command write feature branch)

How Branching works?

Carefull check to version change
git log --oneline (check the commits)
git checkout <commit id> (switch to previous verison instead off remove the all changes in the after that commitment files)


Compare commits
git log --oneline

git diff <commit id 1> <commit id 2> (difference two commit ids)


Push - sending local changes to the remote
Fetch - Bringing remote changes into your local repository, but not merging them yet
Pull - Fetching plus merging-so your working directory immediately reflects the remote changes

Pull = Fetch + Merge

git pull 

git push origin <branch name> - (origin is the remote repository, remote branch data transfer to main branch)

git fetch


git restore <file or folder or .> (help to revert the state of the last commit)


git restore --staged <file or .> (It's mainly used to undo local uncommited changes before they're ever commited)

Stash
what is stash?

git stash (Temporaly store the file in local not commit)
git stash pop (To retain the store file in the stash method without commit)

git stash apply (restore the changes without commit and also safely save the stash)


Difference between stash pop and apply

git stash list (to show the list of stash)

git stash drop (drop the after stash list and empty the stashs)

git stash pop stash@{itemno}
git stash apply stash@{itemno}


Revert
what is revert?

git revert <commit id> (to revert the particular commit state)
and "wq" keyword press to write and quit the method

Resert

What is reset?

Difference between reset and revert

git reset (so the after commit all data errased)

Carefully use
Rebase

Pull request
What is pull request?


